Species: Bzbr

Physical Characteristics:

A Bzbr most closely resembles a 1.5-meter long, hairy, ten-legged, arboreal 
reptilian with a meter long prehensile tail.  Each limb has four segments, the 
fourth being the hand/foot equivalent.  The rear six legs are built for jumping, 
and are used only for locomotion, the two underslung short arms primarily for 
food manipulation, and the two forward inline limbs primarily for gripping 
branches or other such objects, arching upwards and forward from the rest of the 
body, in contrast to the other inline limbs, which proceed upward and outward 
from the torso.  
Lacking vocal cords, the Bzbr communicate in a simple language consisting of 
varied buzzing tones produced by rubbing their feeder limbs together and motions 
of the gripping limbs.  

The Bzbr have three genders, breeder, broodherd, and gatherer.  Gatherers are 
the most common gender, and conduct all hunting activities.  Breeders are 
smaller than the gatherers, and forage close to the nest area for roots and nest 
building material.  In far smaller number than the breeders or gatherers are the 
broodherds, larger, stronger, sterile, and existing solely to protect the young 
and territory of their sisters.  Normal Bzbr nest groupings number in the few 
dozens of adults.  Bzbr are exceptionally short lived, living only 35 – 40 
years, even with modern medical technologies, but, given their small size

Habitat:

A world of jungle islands, spontaneous firestorms due to the high oxygen content 
of the atmosphere, and extreme seasonal weather shifts, the Bzbr homeworld can 
be safely considered unpleasant to all of the known spacefaring races.

Culture:

Adopted by the Aera out of some combination of pity and sympathy for similar 
jungle origins, the Bzbr were pulled straight from the stone age to the FTL age.  
Adapting about as well as can be expected to this rapid change, many Bzbr simply 
went insane trying to adapt, but after a few generations, the Bzbr had come to 
accept the new reality, even if they were ill equipped to understand it.  
Although not particularly bright or creative, the Bzbr are actually quite good 
at both remembering and following instructions, and have come to be used in 
various Aera space construction projects, where they are valued for their 
ability to deftly maneuver in small spaces and to leap from girder to girder.  
Bzbr, are, however, never seen far from their Aera Patrons, as they are quite 
lost without them.  The Bzbr still, to some great degree, see the Aera as 
messengers of the gods, having delivered them from the horrors of their world, 
even if they know the Aera to be both mortal and fallible.
