Species: Dgn

Physical Characteristics: 

The Dgn are the result of genetic modifications performed 
by the Shapers on a dexterous amphibious species. Short, 
somewhat tubby, and neckless, the normal Dgn resting 
posture is to stand, with greatly forward slanting back 
ridges, propped upon the webbed hind limbs and the two 
paddle-tails.  The forelimbs, however, are what attracted 
the interest of the Shapers.  Each topped with seven bi-
directionally hinged, four-jointed fingers and two 
opposable thumbs, the forelimbs of a Dgn are precision 
instruments, having allowed them to craft and wield the 
collections of reeds they used as a sort of 'multi-
chopsticks' to grab otherwise dangerous prey out of the 
coastal muck.  The Dgn are notable for having two spinal 
ridges, with a notable cleft between them, that run from 
the back of the skull and terminate in two separate paddle-
tails.  The Dgn head is elongated, as is the thick-gummed 
mouth, and the eyes are as much side mounted as top set. 
Breathing slits are located along the left and right 
undersides of the head-torso junction.

Genetically modified Dgn live for up to 50 years.

Habitat:

The Dgn can breathe in both atmospheric and aquatic 
conditions, provided that there is sufficient oxygen 
dissolved in the water.  They do, however, require either a 
humid land environment, or frequent re-wetting to keep both 
their skin and breathing orifices from drying out.

Culture:

What native culture existed among the pre-modified Dgn has 
been greatly altered.  Bred for servitude, the Dgn are not 
greatly renowned for intellectual achievements.  The Dgn 
exist as a servant race for the Shapers, working on nearly 
all Shaper aquatic projects, and filling other unwanted 
roles in society.  The one noted exception to this rule is 
the use of Dgn as medical assistants in Shaper hospitals, 
where their dexterity has proved them faster than humans at 
prepping the injured for surgery. While the rights of the 
Dgn are well defined by the Shapers, and abuse is not at 
all tolerated, their rights are not the same as those of 
the Shapers, and if the Dgn are to be considered citizens 
of the Shaper political body, then they are, at best, 
second class citizens.  One cannot say that the Dgn are 
entirely pleased with their position, but neither can one 
say that there is fertile ground for revolt, as the Dgn do 
not seem to possess within them a particular desire to be 
forced to decide their own destinies.
